Okay.
So we have now confirmed in our job listings component that we are able to use either one of these two
getters to filter our jobs.
Either this get it right here, filter jobs by organizations or this go right here, filter jobs by
job types.
We can use them individually, independently, but of course, we ultimately want to combine them into
one so that the user can filter jobs by multiple criteria.
So what I propose we do is that we introduce a new getter that I'll simply call filtered jobs.
And the goal there will be to use the logic across both of these getters to filter our original array
of jobs in the View Store State.
So this time around, since we're introducing a new feature and I want to keep things moving forward,
let's skip writing tests for now.
We're going to come back to tests a little bit later.
But for now, let's see if we can get a quick and dirty implementation up and running.
So in order to create a new filter jobs getter, I'm going to start with my constants.
So I'm going to open up that file right here.
Constance J in our source store folder.
And right here in my jobs category, I'm going to create a new const.
Called filtered jobs.
This time around is not going to be just the concept of filtering specifically by organization or job
types.
I'm going to give it the generic name filter jobs which which can incorporate what we've built so far
and potentially any other filters that we want to add to our project later.
All right.
So that brings us back to our Getters Jast file.
Here, I can import my new filter job's constant.
And down below here, I can define my new filter jobs.
Get her.
What does it matter?
It's a method that accepts the View Store State as its first argument and returns whatever you'd like
from it.
So here's what I did when I was building this project out.
I actually made a mistake.
I made a technical bug.
But I do want to keep it in showing you my implementation because I want to treat it as if we're building
a real world project and we're just pair programming together.
So I want to show you the implementation that I built.
Then we're going to run into a bug a little bit later and we're going to talk about what's wrong with
the implementation that I'm about to write right now.
So what I basically did is I looked at each individual getter and I said, okay, if the length of the
selected organization slice of UX is zero and the length of the selected job types arrays is zero as
well, then the user has not selected any possible criteria to filter by.
And that's when I want to return all of the original jobs represented by state dot jobs.
So the first thing I did is try to capture these statements right here in a single if statement right
here.
So what I did is I created two constants.
The first one I called no selected organizations and that was basically just the name to check whether
state that selected organization's dot length was equal to zero.
So accessing that array of strings, checking if its length was equal to zero.
If that is true, then there are no selected organizations.
Similarly, I created another constant for.
No.
Selected job types and that I assigned to state that selected job types having a length equal to zero.
The same logic if that array of strings representing the users choices is equal to zero, that means
there's no content.
The user has made no selections, so no selected job types.
Then on the next line I said if no selected organisations and no selected job types, meaning the user
has not made any choices whatsoever.
Then I wanted to return the array of jobs represented by state jobs so we can do a condition here and
right return state that jobs.
And one way we can actually simplify this in JavaScript is you can actually remove the curly braces
from an if statement, if you have a single one liner like so.
So what we can do is remove the curly brace above and remove the curly brace below and simply return
state jobs like XL.
So I thought that this logic was going to be sufficient to capture the idea of no selections and avoiding
the bug we saw earlier of having the screen load nothing.
As it turns out, this is actually not good enough, but we'll talk about that in a second.
So the next thing I did was I said, let's have two filter method invocations on state jobs because
we know that state that jobs is the original array that I'm starting with and I want to filter it,
but not just once, but twice, once for the logic of organizations and once for the logic for job tips.
And rather than cram that all into a single filter method call, I decided to split it up across two
separate method calls.
So essentially what I did was something like this returns state that jobs.
And I said, I want to filter this array and here I'm going to provide my filter function.
So for each job, the first thing I want to check is for organizations.
So I copied this line right here, the one that says Check whether the jobs organization is found within
the selected organization's array.
So I'm going to copy that line down below like so.
And then this is going to filter my original array of jobs and give me back a new array.
And then on that array I'm going to call the filter method once again and pass in my second filter operation.
And that is checking for the job types.
So that involved me copying this line right here.
Pasting it right here.
And there we go.
Now, the reason I like this approach, instead of doing something like this where I put everything
in one line like so with an and operator, is because I think it makes it a little bit cleaner and a
little bit more isolated by doing two filter method calls.
I can kind of break apart each individual responsibility, especially with prettier breaking up each
method call on a single line.
It kind of follows the more of a functional programming paradigm where each thing is just starting with
an original bit of state and then narrowing it down to the next smaller subset of items.
I think it just reads a little bit cleaner, it makes the lines shorter, and it also paves the way
for eventually adding more filters.
You can imagine if I have, for example, four or five different criteria.
I don't want to have four and five, you know, and statements in a single line.
I'd rather just run the filter four or five times.
So each operation belongs on a single line.
It just reads very easily.
First, here's the bit of logic for filtering by organizations.
Then take that array, filter it again for the jobs that fit the job types criteria, and that the very
end of the day, you're going to get another array.
And that's ultimately what I'm going to return for my filtered jobs array right here.
All right.
So that's where I started.
That was my first implementation.
We're going to try to use this getter in the component in the very next lesson and see that it's not
going to work quite right.